---
layout: page
title: October 28, 2015
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-10282015.pdf
link: /ccnx-spec/community/meetings/meeting_10282015.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Jim Gibson, Ilya Moiseenko, Christian Tschudin, Cedric Westphal, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-10282015.pdf)

## Agenda:

- Quickly review the changes to the discovery document.
- Assess the Manifest requirements document.
- Discuss what’s missing from the IP security and privacy document. Identify volunteers who can help work on the current version.

## Related material:

- CCNx End-host Forwarder Discovery (draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxdiscovery.txt) [this was the bootstrapping document]
- CCNx Manifest Requirements (draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxmanifestreqs.txt)
- IP-Based Security and Privacy Practices (draft-wood-icnrg-ipprivacylandscape.txt)

## Review the CCNx forwarder bootstrapping specification

- No comments. Will proceed with the current version.

## Assess the Manifest requirements document

- The motivation for some of the functional requirements was still insufficient.
    - e.g., why is chunking disallowed?
- There is uncertainty about whether these requirements will also be used for future versions or incarnations of the Manifest.
    - Should a “streaming Manifest” also adhere to these requirements?
    - This is unclear, since Ilya’s embedding scheme could be applied on top of the static Manifest to enable streaming.
        - The requirements (or design) don’t preclude the sequence number-based naming scheme to be applied.
- Should pointers in the body be encrypted?
    - Yes, if we care about privacy.
    - Implication: (untrusted) forwarders can’t use encrypted Manifests.
- Concern about the packet type vs message type (R1). Should a Manifest be a type of Content Object or a new message altogether?
    - Treating it as a Content Object makes the parsing simpler (no new states in the parser).
    - Creating a new message may set a dangerous precedent where any new entity is treated as a new message.
        - Response: Manifests that do not carry application data are very distinct from Content Objects, which are vehicles for application data, so a new message type seems alright.
- Requirement R6 has a typo (the second “Manifests” should be “Messages”).
- Why is the desire to amortize the cost of signatures not listed as a requirement?
    - Response: That’s an error. It probably should be.
- Why are collections of Content Objects not considered in the requirements?
    - Response: The desire was to start small with the static and finite data case.
    - Outcome: Let’s handle directories next.
- Requirement R7 (“additional location information”) is confusing and could benefit from some examples.
    - e.g., Pointers should be allowed to specify separate “namespace anchors” (locations) for content.
- What happened to metadata?
    - Response: It was pulled out of the Manifest as the expectation is to treat it as new TLVs that can just be added to any CCNx message.
- Should we encode all types of metadata (e.g., application-specific and network-related) the same way?
    - e.g., a metadata field that indicates the “end of a stream” might be useful network metadata but not application-specific.
- (Requirement R8) Why bother saying that Manifests should be loop-free since consumers will perform loop detection anyway?
    - Response: It should be illegal for a producer to create a Manifest that contains loops. We want to limit the burden on consumers parsing Manifests.
    - Implication: We would need to specify the consumer action(s) to take if a loop is detected.
    - Note: We aren’t specifying *how* loops are prevented (e.g., via hash-based LINKs). We are only requiring that they do not exist.
- How long should Manifests be expected to live?
    - Group: Their lifetime should be bounded by the data they point to. A Manifest should not outlive the data to which it contains or represents.
- Should the illegality of “broken links” or “non-existent data” be listed as a requirement?
    - Response: Probably not if we specify the lifetime of Manifests.

## Discuss the IP security and privacy document

- In the “Session Layer” section, the usage of ephemeral keys is a mechanism (i.e., the how) to achieve forward secrecy (i.e., the what).

# Action Items

- Update the Manifest requirements document based on the group discussion and feedback. [Chris]
- Prepare the updated CCNx Manifest design document. [Chris]
- Finalize and distribute the TLV-based metadata specification. [Chris]
- Update and distribute the Manifest use case document. [Chris, time pending]

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 11/11/15 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- IETF 94 recap.
- Discuss the updated static Manifest requirements.
- Review the Manifest use case document.
- Assess the CCNx metadata proposal.
