---
layout: page
title: March 2nd, 2016
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160302.pdf
link: /ccnx-spec/community/meetings/meeting_03022016.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Jim Gibson, Ravi Ravindran, Greg Rutz, Glenn Scott, Mark Stapp, Cedric Westphal, Greg White, Christopher Wood, and others

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160302.pdf)

## Agenda:

- LCI to CCNx change in the specification.
- Review FLIC status in CCNx.
- Quickly discuss the latest interoperability specifications (CCNx over UDP draft [1], forwarder discover [2]) and the implementation status.
- Review the advanced manifest use case document [3].
- April meeting tasks and preparation.

## Related Material

- [1] CCNx over UDP (https://github.com/PARC/ccnx-over-udp-rfc/blob/master/draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxoverudp.txt)
- [2] CCNx End-host Forwarder Discovery (https://github.com/PARC/ccnx-fwd-discovery-rfc/blob/master/draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxdiscovery.txt)
- [3] ICN Advanced Manifest Use Cases (https://github.com/chris-wood/icn-manifest-requirements-rfc/blob/master/draft-wood-icnrg-manifestusecases-00.txt)

## Notes

- We could use a new repository implementation for the FLIC usage. (We will work together offline.)
- Q: Do we have an ARP-like protoocl for discovering other forwarders?
    - Not yet.
- We're phasing out Metis in favor of Athena.
    - End of life hasn't been announced
    - Athena is nearly feature equivalent with Metis with few exceptions (e.g., no IPv6 support)
    - We can help folks switch over
    - Athena is claimed to be 10% less performant than Metis.
- Some people were unclear about the manifest network vs. application use case document.
    - Should the IRTF be worrying about application uses for network protocols? Probably not.
    - We’re trying to tease out the real manifest network use cases vs what are really just application use cases.
- DASH describes an application manifest. But can some of that functionality be put into the network?
- The goal of the manifest use case document is to answer the following question: should some application manifest features or functionality be pushed to the network?
    - We (Cedric and Chris) will continue with the exploration.
- April tasks include preparation for compression, key exchange updates, and a brief status update on the specifications. We may also propose a privacy definitions document to start having meaningful conversations.

# Action Items

- Update the manifest use case document with more clarifying text. [Chris and Cedric]
- Privacy requirement definitions and exploration. [Chris and Mark]

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 3/16/16 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- Privacy definitions.
- Advanced Manifest use case discussion.
