---
layout: page
title: March 30, 2016
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160330.pdf
link: /ccnx-spec/community/meetings/meeting_03302016.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Börje Ohlman, Greg Rutz, Glenn Scott, Nacho Solis, Cedric Westphal, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160330.pdf)

## Agenda:

- Prioritize interesting manifest use cases for experimentation [1]. What are interesting and useful cases to get up and running?
- Discuss the ICN privacy principles writeup [2].
- Identify work up the stack and discuss how to work on transport protocols.
- Last minute ICNRG tasks before BA.

## Related Material

- [1] https://github.com/chris-wood/icn-manifest-requirements-rfc
- [2] https://github.com/chris-wood/icn-privacy-principles

## Notes

- Huawei has an implementation of a type of Manifest and did a demo with it last year at ICN
    - They had DNS return a Manifest instead of a record (file-specific record instead of domain-specific record).
    - The manifest included information about the file.
    - Routing decisions were based on the size of the object, for example, after being requested by the consumer.
    - Replicating this in CCN would require more work since routing does not take this information into account.
- Privacy principles
    - There were concerns about the encryption by default principle -- why is this necessary for public information?
        - In the Internet, that’s not OK (example: DPRIVE for encrypted DNS).
    - What about item #6 in application credentials?
        - That doesn’t reveal more information -- we just don’t want to increase problems if credentials are stolen
- Transport protocols
    - We have a communication protocol and some data and we need to start moving it efficiently (i.e., we need a protocol like TCP).
    - Questions:
        - Do people want to work with the CCNx code to help build something?
        - If so, can we provide to help them along?
        - Not a lot of interest among the group (yet) but there will likely be soon.

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 4/16/16 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- Manifest pre-fetching in forwarders.
- CCN and content replica interaction with CCNx-KE.
- ICN privacy principles (https://github.com/chris-wood/icn-privacy-principles).
- Status update on DTLS link support.
