---
layout: page
title: December 9, 2015
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151209.pdf
link: /ccnx-spec/community/meetings/meeting_12092015.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Jim Gibson, Dirk Kutscher, Ilya Moiseenko, Dave Oran, Ravi Ravindran, Greg Rutz, Glenn Scott, Nacho Solis, Mark Stapp, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151209.pdf)

## Agenda:

- Continue discussion and evaluation the FLIC and ISO manifest designs, with a focus on de-duping and sizes per pointer.
- Propose changes to the CCNx Semantics and Messages documents.
- Briefly revisit interoperability barriers (link protocol, forwarder discovery, etc.) and identify the gaps.
- Briefly discuss advanced manifest use cases.
- Identify volunteers for the “advanced” manifest. (This design work will be done in parallel.)

## Related material:

- FLIC vs ISO email (naming-notes.txt)
- FLIC specification (https://github.com/tschudin/icn-flic-rfc/blob/master/draft-tschudin-icnrg-flic-00.txt)
- ISO overview (iso-overview.txt)
- CCNx Semantics (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics-00.txt)
- CCNx Messages in TLV Format (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages-00.txt)

## FLIC and ISO Discussion

- (Pro-ISO claim): organization by groups does not necessarily help.
    - Does not save much more space.
    - Each one has efficient and inefficient scenarios.
    - Relative names can be sacrificed.
- Gave implementation status update.
    - FLIC implemented in ccn-lite and CCNx.
    - Repo implemented in ccn-lite but not in CCNx.
- How does the FLIC design interoperate with the encrypted manifests, file system-like seeking, and cleartext names?
    - Balanced manifest trees enable file seeking to arbitrary blocks in the data (across the network).
- Manifest does not solve the problem of “what byte to seek to in order to get the right video?” It’s just a low level index for a large object.
- FLIC receivers need to do bounds checking for a “seek” due to hierarchical manifests with possibly different child block sizes.
- Do these manifests subsume the chunking protocol?
    - Unsure, but it can, and also maybe fragmentation if we have that knowledge
- How are names used to index into the repo?
    - Names are locators for the correct chunk and the hash is the unique identifier.
- Should multiple locators be maintained in the root? And what are the security and trust implications of that addition?
- Third possible de-duplication location: cache based on hash instead of name and hash (to satisfy multiple interests with different locators and the same hash restriction).
- Encryption and manifest are not necessarily independent: what if a person sees a cleartext hashes and then uses them to subvert the root manifest to get access to chunks.
    - Should match by hash be the right thing to do in a forwarder?
    - Do names subsume the interest name locator in the forwarder?
- Repos have different matching semantics from forwarder cache.
- Nameless objects are unsettling -- do messages really not need to contain the name?
    - Is it an important capability to retrieve by hash only without anything in the name?

# Action Items

- Formalize nameless object matching, forwarding, and repo rules. [Chris]
- Explore the relationship between manifest encryption and nameless object fetching. [All]

# Questions Raised

- Is chunking still necessary with manifests?
- Is matching based on hashing alone (i.e., not taking the name in account) a security problem?

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 12/23/15 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- Manifests, encryption, and nameless objects
- Nameless object forwarding
- FLIC updates
