---
layout: page
title: December 23, 2015
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151223.pdf
link: /ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/meetings/meeting_12232015.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Jim Gibson, Dirk Kutscher, Ilya Moiseenko, Greg Rutz, Greg White, Nacho Solis, Mark Stapp, Christian Tschudin, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151223.pdf)

## Agenda:

- Give a status update on the CCNx and ccn-lite FLIC implementations.
- Revisit CCNx nameless objects for clarification.
- Discuss the manifest security problem raised during the last meeting.
- Identify tasks that need to be complete before the Paris interim meeting.

## Related material:

- FLIC specification (https://github.com/tschudin/icn-flic-rfc/blob/master/draft-tschudin-icnrg-flic-00.txt)
- CCNx Semantics (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics-00.txt)
- CCNx Messages in TLV Format (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages-00.txt)

## FLIC Status Update

- Revisited (minor) ISO and FLIC differences:
    - In ISO: data sizes per pointer.
        - This is useful for amending data (e.g., inserting a byte in the middle of a manifest).
    - In ISO: relative and absolute names are supported.
        - This has implications on nameless and “nameful” objects.
    - Everything else is functionally equivalent.
- We could (should?) test the formats with different data types (streaming video, images, etc.) to see how one format might be better than the other.
    - Differences are small, i.e., they are about saving some bytes here and there.
- Should 2+2 TLV encoding be used for everything? Should we seek for different encodings for different types?
    - Maybe it’s not time for this discussion.
    - We should spend time evaluating upper-level use cases (not encoding problems).

## Nameless Objects

- Is the interest name (for a nameless object) used when indexing into the cache?
    - PIT still stores the name (unless you’re out of space).
    - Cache is indexed by the hash (assumes an index over the cache that works via hash).
- Protocol updates: header field that includes the hash
    - The field specifies the hash type and the actual payload.
    - Some nodes may compute the hash while others (maybe in the core) may not.
- How is hash agility handled? What if two interests for the same data are issued with with different hash restrictions?
    - They would specify the type of hash (if we supported more than one -- currently we only support SHA256), and the right hash function would be invoked to do the match.
- Root manifest must be named and all children must be nameless.
    - The NDN implementation required some workarounds because nameless objects are not yet supported (see ccn-lite FLIC code for more details).
        - This is the “nameful” mode of the FLIC.
        - The implicit digest covers the name and payload.
    - Sending an interest with a non-complete name you will get the content object whose implicit digest has the “smallest” value.
- For Paris, we should include ideas about security and transitive trust that come with manifests and nameless objects.
- There are three moving parts that all play together: nameless objects, asking by hash value, and manifests.
- If a content object has a name then it *must* match the name of the interest.
- Interest with content object hash will not match a content object with the same computed hash but a *different name*.
    - Scenario:
        - Adv 1 publishes content with /NYT and hash H=1, hosted at /adv1
        - Adv 2 requests content with H=1 and locator (name) /adv1
        - Victim requests /NYT and gets the poisoned content
    - Solution: Enforce the above rule.
    - MarkS: Can’t this also be solved by privacy? (No caching, no name collisions, etc.)
        - Answer: Yes.

# Action Items

- Finish CCNx FLIC implementation for January interop test. [Chris]
- Prepare manifest and nameless object security and trust material for the interim meeting. [Chris]
- Collect and organize interop specification documents and drafts to discuss at the interim meeting. [Chris]

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 1/6/16 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- Security and trust issues of manifests and nameless objects.
- Name privacy.
