---
layout: page
title: January 6, 2016
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160106.pdf
link: /ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/meetings/meeting_01062016.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Dirk Kutscher, Dave Oran, Ravi Ravindran, Nacho Solis, Mark Stapp, Christian Tschudin, Greg White, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](//ccnx-protocol-rfc/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20160106.pdf)

## Agenda:

- Security, privacy, and trust issues of manifests and nameless objects.
- Name privacy.
- Identify last minute tasks that need to be completed before the Paris interim meeting.

## Related material:

- FLIC specification (https://github.com/tschudin/icn-flic-rfc/blob/master/draft-tschudin-icnrg-flic-00.txt)
- CCNx Semantics (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxsemantics-00.txt)
- CCNx Messages in TLV Format (https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages-00.txt)
- Some privacy-related papers:
    - Acs, Gergely, et al. "Cache privacy in named-data networking." 2013 IEEE 33rd International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS). IEEE, 2013.
    - Chaabane, Abdelberi, et al. "Privacy in content-oriented networking: Threats and countermeasures." ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review. Vol. 43 No. 3. ACM, 2013.
    - DiBenedetto, Steven, et al. "ANDaNA: Anonymous Named Data Networking Application."
    - Ion, Mihaela, Jianqing Zhang, and Eve M. Schooler. "Toward content-centric privacy in ICN: attribute-based encryption and routing." ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review. Vol. 43. No. 4. ACM, 2013.

## Security, Privacy, and Trust

- Manifests require channels because observers can just view interests issued from the body of a manifest.
    - Manifest fetching reveals names over a path that might along a different path from the one along which the manifest was fetched.
- Ephemeral communication is needed and that has implications on forwarders (no caching, for example).
    - Encryption might mean there are no nameless objects at all.
- Do forwarders need to parse the body of a manifest? (Either by cleartext or using something like mcTLS.)
- Trusted proxies may not have many uses (banking applications won’t fly, but video distribution is a good example).
- Trusted proxies may look like CDNs today
    - We can’t do better so why bother trying?
    - We shouldn’t do worse than this arrangement today
- Opinion: ICN might not be so much about data -- it has other features as well.
    - Sourceless addresses for example are a good driving feature.
- Manifests and their security (along with channels) should be a stack feature as a service.
- Opinion: maybe map hashes to encrypted variants (in a session) so that the hashes are still hidden and only the locator is revealed.
    - Hashes are of encrypted content and each consumer gets a different encrypted representation (and therefore a different manifest) → no caching but better privacy.
- Comment: We all must read Stephen’s comments on the security and privacy challenges for ICN.
- Manifests are orthogonal to the privacy question. The real question is if the current CDN paradigm is the best and, if not, how can we do better.
    - Better might mean better performance, application independence, or equivalent privacy.
- There needs to be more focus (in the community) on the design of CDNs.
- The spectrum of privacy needs to be explored.

# Action Items

- Privacy spectrum exploration. [Anyone interested]
- CDN design revisit. [Anyone interested]

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 1/20/16 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- ICN privacy spectrum
- CDNs and ICN
