---
layout: page
title: November 11, 2015
page-category: TWG
notes-url: /ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151111.pdf
link: /ccnx-spec/community/meetings/meeting_11112015.html
---

# Overview

Attendees: Jim Gibson, Dirk Kutscher, Ilya Moiseenko, Börje Ohlman, Dave Oran, Mark Stapp, Christian Tschudin, Ravi Ravindran, Greg Rutz, Christopher Wood

[*PDF copy*](/ccnx-spec/community/notes/CCNxTWG-Minutes-20151111.pdf)

## Agenda:

- IETF 94 recap.
- Quickly discuss the updated static Manifest requirements.
- Review the Manifest use case document.
- Identify the next steps for the Manifest.
- Assess the CCNx Message Metadata proposal.

## Related material:

- CCNx Manifest Requirements (draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxmanifestreqs.txt)
- CCNx Manifest Use Cases (draft-wood-icnrg-manifestusecases.txt)
- CCNx Message Metadata (draft-wood-icnrg-ccnxmessagemetadata.txt)

## IETF Recap

- Recap and summary of the meeting.
- Most likely the interim meeting in January will be 1.5 days from Thursday 1/14/16 to Friday (morning) 1/15/16.
    - The format will be similar to the interim meeting in Yokohama, including breakout groups for topics and then technical (protocol oriented) topics.

## Discuss the updated static Manifest requirements

- Dave: Should forwarders check that the type of pointer matches the resulting message?
- Nacho: Only the consumer should, else it’s a DoS attack.
- Dave: Is it a requirement that a tree be traversable starting anywhere in the Manifest tree?
- Nacho: No.  
- Dave: Should the requirements specify if it’s allowed to represent DAGs or only trees?
- Nacho: Manifest tree shape should not be a requirement.
- Dave: Disagrees. Needs more convincing.
- Nacho: Wants a requirement that does not mean it’s a tree.
- Ravi: Nacho seems to be implying there a relationship between the data itself and the Manifest structure?
- Nacho: Wants requirement that it should not be a tree.
- Dave: Is not convinced that all digraph traversals can be done by a “robot,” or an automated piece of software below the application.
- Mark: Believes there should be one requirement--we want to have a way to experiment with Manifests. The point is to help people do experiments to answer these questions.
- Ilya: LINKs in the introduction is misleading--does this mean that the pointer should be a LINK?
- Chris: No, it’s just an example.
- Dirk: Specifies the minimal set of what Manifests should support, right?
- Nacho: Yes, and there will be multiple designs that attempt to satisfy these requirements.
- Jim: Where did the “loop freedom” requirement go?
- Nacho: They went away since we don’t want to restrict designs.
- Ravi: What is a good example of a digraph Manifest?
- Nacho: Don’t have one. I was referring to a tree-based Manifest in the hard-disk example.
- Mark: Should we also leverage this to build collections and singletons?
- Nacho: I want this to represent a single object that must be reassembled.
- Mark: Need to write down the assumptions about entities that can process these Manifests. This is completely omitted from the current draft.
- Chris: Collection vs Singleton was a discussion we had, but we decided to simplify and settle on the single data case.
- Ravi: Is reconstruction an application decision?
- Dirk: We’re saying that this is a network-layer thing that applications do not see. We should consider a different Manifest for collections.
- Ravi: Collections vs Singletons is application layer knowledge.
- Nacho: This distinction needs to be conveyed somehow, i.e., application level data, flags in pointers, etc.
- Chris: I can add back the extensibility argument for the simple Manifest.
- Dave: Call this a single-object Manifest, and the next iteration the Multi-Object Manifest. Static doesn’t convey the right thing.
- Nacho: Immutable Single Object Manifest?
- Dave: You can use the same structure for mutable or immutable things.

# Action Items

- Update the terminology in the static CCNx Manifest requirements document. [Chris]
- Review and provide feedback on the Manifest use case document. [All]
- Prepare and distribute designs for the static CCNx Manifest. Engage in discussions on the mailing list. [All]
- Update the metadata document based on offline feedback. [Chris]

# Questions Raised

- Should Interests also support a “type” restriction? For example, an interest for a message of type T_OBJECT could carry that flag (as a restriction) and forwarders could enforce this restriction on the reverse path.

# Next Meeting

Date & Time: 11/25/15 at 11am PST

Tentative agenda:

- Review highlights of the submitted design(s) for the static CCNx Manifest.
- Renew discussion and assessment of the Manifest use case document.
- Status update on the CCNx message metadata document(s).
- Discuss the minimalist CCNx over UDP draft.
